# SeismicPlots

## ~/projects/plotRSAM

MATLAB scripts for plotting various seismic data. 
* Most are interactive with various options.
* Most save the plot as a png file automatically.

The scripts use data from the SEISAN database and other files. The data used by the scripts needs to be manually updated by responding 'Y' to the following prompt.

```
Do you want to re-fetch seismic data? Y/N [N]: 
```

The start and end dates for the plot are asked for in a dd/mm/yyyy format, but the following (hopefully self-explantory aliases are accepted. These are set by the function */home/seisan/src/MATLAB/utils/dateCommon.m*.
```
now
today
yesterday
endDay
endMonth
endYear
begDay
begMonth
begYear
begEruption
begPhase1Seismic
begPhase1
begPhase1Phreatic
begPhase1Extrusion
begPause1
begPhase2
begPhase2a
begPause2a
begPhase2b
begPause2b
begPhase2c
begPause2c
begPause2
begPhase3Trans
begPhase3
begPause3
begPhase4Trans
begPhase4
begPhase4a
begPause4a
begPhase4b
begPause4b
begPause4
begPhase5Trans
begPhase5
begPause5
begPause5+2
```

Some scripts are obsolete. Below are the important ones.

## calcMoments.m

Calculates and lists Seismic Moments calculated from ML for SEISAN VTs. This functionality is embedded in other scripts that require it.

## plotCounts.m

Plots hourly, daily, weekly or monthly counts of seismic event types.

## plotNsta.m

Plot number of working seismic stations based on RSAM data.

*Caution: not working properly as I can't remember how to update the database.*

## plotRain.m

Plots rainfall data, used for checking.

## plotRockfallCounts.m

Plots daily, weekly or monthly count of rockfalls.

## plotRockfallCounts2.m

Non-interactive plot of rockfall counts and smoothed. Was used in six-monthly report but not any more.

## plotRockfallCountsRain.m, 

Plot rockfall counts with rainfall. There is a bug in some of the rainfall data which is handled in *plotRockfallCountsRain2*.m.

## plotRsam1.m

Plot RSAM for one station. Defaults to last 24 hours.

## plotRsam3.m, plotRsam6.m

Plot RSAM for three or six stations. Default to last 24 hours.

## plotSingleStationTriggers.m

Plots info on single-station (MSS1) triggers that are created by scripts in *~/src/mseedTriggers*.

## plotVtBvalue.m, plotVtBvalueSplit.m, plotVtBvalueSplitString.m

Create plots that illustrate b-value of VT events.

## plotVtCounts.m

PLots VT counts with counts of string and non-string VTS.

## plotVtCountsMagsDepthsStrings.m

Plot VT counts along with magnitudes, depths and strings.

## plotVtCountsPercentString.m

Plots counts of all VTs and string VTs, with the percentage of string VTs.

## plotVtCummoment.m, plotVtCummomentCountsDepthGas.m

Plots cumulative seismic moment of VTs. *plotVtCummomentCountsDepthGas.m* adds VT counts and depths, and SO2 flux.

## plotVtDepthsLatsLons.m, plotVtDepthsLatsLonsNsta.m

Plots VT depths, ;atitudes and longitudes as a function of time. *plotVtDepthsLatsLonsNsta.m* adds the number of working stations based on RSAM data.

*plotVtDepthsLatsLons.m* can get its data from either the SEISAN database (default) or a select.out file generated by *select*. This has to be in */home/seisan/seismo/WOR*.


## plotVtHypocentres.m, plotVtHypocentres2.m, plotVtHypocentres3.m

Plot map, sections and times of VTs. *plotVtHypocentres3.m* is used in reports and presentations.

They offer a choice of scale:

```
Scale of map (n/c/w) [n]:
```
n: normal
c: close
w: wide

They offer a choice of plot symbol:
```
Symbol type( f, m, md) [m]:
```
f: fixed size
m: size varies with magnitude
md: size varies with magnitude, colour varies with depth. Not implemented.


## plotWeeklyCounts.m

Plot event counts published in MVO weekly reports.

## Author

Roderick Stewart, Dormant Services Ltd

rod@dormant.org

https://services.dormant.org/

## Version History

* 1.0-dev
    * Working version

## License

This project is the property of Montserrat Volcano Observatory.
